Please welcome CEO at Gainsite, Nick Ma.
How are you guys doing? Excited.
Are you actually real people? I'm saying
real human beings, not a Zoom screen.
This is awesome. I am so fired up to be
here. So grateful to Jason Lumpin and
Saster for bringing us all together
again. I don't know about you, but I
missed stuff like this. So we're going
to have some fun today. I'm Nick Ma, CEO
of Gainsite, and we're going to talk
about customer success, which if you
follow me online is the one of the few
things I talk about a lot. Um, but we're
going to talk about how customer success
is changing. Um, this conference is so
inspirational to me because I've been
fortunate to be here since the beginning
of 2015 and it's just like shows how
much is happening in entrepreneurship,
right? Many of you raise your hand if
you work at a company that's like less
than 50 employees. Awesome. I love that.
Like, you're the future. It's so
awesome. And what's cool is, you know,
you don't have to make all the mistakes
that, you know, folks that have been
around for a long time like me have made
in customer success. So, what we want to
talk about is just like the whole world
of tech is changing, customer success is
changing a lot. And we're going to try
to share some lessons that we've seen
and hopefully leave you with some
specific actions you can take going
forward. So, this all goes back to a
PDF. That's this whole presentation goes
back to a PDF. In 2013, we launched
Gainsite and one of the first things we
did was built this document called the
10 laws of customer success. Now, raise
your hand and be honest if you weren't
working in SAS or tech in 2013. And it's
totally fine, right? So, some of you
missed out on those early days. This is
all good. And back in those days, there
weren't that many SAS companies around.
Literally, events like this would have
been a few hundred people. I see Brian
Plaster in the back, one of early CS
executives. And you remember what I'm
talking about, right? Not many people
out there. So we all had to figure it
out. And so we built this document that
was based on 10 SAS companies and what
they learned about customer success in
2013. And this document actually ended
up turning into a book called customer
success which is a blue book. Anyone
raised read the customer success book
sold about 100,000 copies so far. Um my
mom's very proud of that book uh which
is very important. Um and so customer
success back then was a totally new
thing and a lot of those principles
still apply. But what we're going to
talk about today is how the world's
changed and how we could take all of
this to the next level. Because when you
think about it, this is from 2013,
right? So let's go back in the time
machine to 2013. Just think about how
far back 2013 was. For me, it kind of
blows my mind. So let me share with you
a few fun facts about 2013. First of
all, 2013, if you were in San Francisco,
was the year that Bat Kid stole our
hearts and stole our imaginations. Some
of you probably remember Bat Kid, this
little kid that dressed up as Batman. Uh
2013 was also the year that Katie Perry
roared for the first time, which was
amazing, and I still think that's one of
the greatest moments in musical history.
2013 was the year that we saw Frozen for
the first time. And it was back when we
still liked Let It Go before our kids
had made us listen to it like a thousand
times. So back then, Frozen was a new
thing. 2013 was actually the year after
Saster got started. So this is actually
a photo from 2015, the first Saster
Conference. But this concept of an event
like this was just a twinkle in Jason
Lmin's eye in 2013, right? So just shows
you how far back 2013 goes. Now some
things we can agree from 2013 shouldn't
be kept for the future. Some things
really we should just leave them in the
past. For example, 2013 was when Game of
Thrones had the Red Wedding episode.
Scarred us all. I think many of us still
are trying to get over that getting
therapy. 2013 was Gangdom Style, right?
That was still pretty good. I think the
guy's really excited. 2013 was when we
figured out what the fox said, which
actually we didn't really figure out
what the fox said, but we we're supposed
to figure out what the fox said. And
2013 was a year that I misguidedly
decided that at our first conference, we
were going to a gain site. We just
launched our company, our first
conference. I decided to do Movember at
Dreamforce. And that was a big strategic
mistake. I think all of you would agree.
And if any of you control the internet,
if you can delete this photo from the
internet, I would greatly appreciate it.
So 2013 was a long time ago, right? But
these 10 laws of customer success, as
you're going to see, they still apply,
but we can kind of put a fresh coat of
paint on them. And that's what we're
going to do today is a fresh coat of
paint on these 10 laws. And by the way,
the 10 laws were created originally by
gentleman named Dan Steman, who actually
was one of the authors, the main author
on the book customer success. So we're
going to revisit Dan's laws from 10
years ago. Okay, these are the original
10 laws. I'm not going to go through
them now, but we're this is kind of the
reference frame we're going to talk
about. So, law number one back in 2013
was customer success is a top-down
companywide commitment. Raise your hand
if you work in the CS function, right?
And then many of you, I'm not going to
make you raise your hands again,
probably would like the rest of the
company to be behind customer success
more than you they are right now, right?
It's not just a function. Everyone needs
to focus on customer success. You've
heard this, I'm sure, a million times.
Well, how do we revise this law for the
new era? What do we need to change about
this? What do we need to enhance about
this? Well, it's one thing for a CEO to
say, "Oh, this is a top- down
companywide commitment, but CEOs say
things like that all the time, right?
And what actually makes it happen?"
Well, what I'd argue, what we'd argue at
Gainsite is you need to figure out a way
to build customer success into the core
of what you do. It's not just platitudes
and all hands meetings. It's not just
that you put customer success in your
website. It's actually changing the core
of what your company does. Right?
Because I think all of us if you work in
CS can empathize with this fact that
many companies don't do customer success
well. So two months ago I decided to
have some fun on LinkedIn and I put up a
a question which was okay let's start a
fun thread. What are the best ways to
fail at customer success? If a CEO wants
to pretend they care about customer
success but don't really what should
they do? And this question was like
throwing meat into the sharks in
customer success. Immediately 160
comments of people talking about what
people do wrong in customer success, how
they pretend to care about it, how they
pay at lip service, but it doesn't
actually turn into reality. And I bet
some of you have worked in companies
like that, right? It's very frustrating.
Frankly, I bet if you're in CS, you end
up leaving those companies. That's
that's the reality of it, right? And
what does that look like? What does lip
service look like? things like customer
success is buried in the organization,
right? It reports to somebody, reports
to somebody, reports to somebody.
Whoops. If you go go back one slide, I
think this auto clicking. Go back to the
last slide if you can. Thanks. Uh, you
know, second thing, you have a board
meeting and there's no section about
customer success. I've seen that. It's
ridiculous, right? In the modern SAS
world. And a third example, the ultimate
faux. Anytime you call customer success
customer support, you owe me a dollar
every single time somebody does that.
But some of you probably heard your CEOs
or executives do that. And just to share
in each one of these 10 laws, I'm going
to share a real story. So about in this
case, making customer success the core
of your company matters partially
because you want to recruit great
people. I'm going to share a story of
one of the top hundred or so CCOs out
there. She could work at any SAS company
she wants. And she said, "When I started
my CCO search, I knew I only only wanted
to work for CEOs who really take their
clients seriously. So when it was buried
under sales, she didn't even want to
take the interview. So if you were in a
position where you're founder or CEO and
you're trying to recruit people, the way
you structure it, the way you talk about
it will influence who you can recruit.
And you're not going to be able to get
the best people if you don't make it
part of your core. So this is law number
one. Make customer success part of your
core. Let's keep going. Law number two.
In 2013, we said sell to the right
customer. And that's absolutely true.
And many of you have experienced, you
know, trying to make a customer work
where they should have never bought your
software in the first place. I'm sure
many of you have dealt with that, right?
But what we'd argue today is it's not
like there's sales and there's customer
success. Those aren't two different
functions. What you need is an
integrated journey from sales to
customer success. Because the truth is,
your customer is trying to achieve a
business outcome. They're trying to
generate more leads for their business
or make their employers happier or grow
their sales, right? They have a goal.
and whether they're talking to sales or
CS doesn't matter, right? And so just to
make this tangible, the way we think
about it is you need a continuous loop
from the sales process where what you're
really doing is defining what outcomes
does the customer care about? What are
they trying to achieve with your
technology, right? That's like the
beginning. And then you onboard the
customer and ideally you're onboarding
them not just to set them up, but to get
them ready to get those business
outcomes, right? Then you're getting
them to adopt your technology not just
to use the features but to actually
achieve those business outcomes. Then
you're actually trying to measure
ideally measure what impact you've
already had. So when a customer and you
are talking you're not just saying oh
you're using our software you're saying
this is the value we've driven for you.
And then if you do that right that's
fuel for you to get new customers right
because those become references and case
studies and all that. So this idea of
endtoend outcomes from the sales process
through onboarding through customer
success one of the hottest topics right
now in the CS field. Give an example of
this. So John Sabino uh some probably
some of you have heard of Splunk.
Splunk's big you know public company and
John Sabino runs all post sales at at
Splunk. So, customer success, support,
services, and he was tired of the same
thing that a lot of you have dealt with,
which is you get a new customer and you
jump on a call with them and you're
like, "What are your goals that you have
with our software?" And the customer
says, "I just spent like three months
explaining to sales what those goals
were, right? And why do we have to have
a separate process for sales versus
customer success?" What they did was
they built a tool that their salespeople
use to basically interactively figure
out what the client's desired outcomes
are. Trying to in their case improve
security posture, reduce downtime,
things like that. Each of you has those
for your business, right? And that tool
automatically then assigns the right
services, the right onboarding to the
customer, what they call a prescriptive
value path to go from those goals to
setting up the customer the right way.
And from there they then create what's
called a success plan to make sure that
that customer is achieving those
outcomes that they were signed up for
right all the way. And then finally when
that customer logs into the product for
the first time they get a popup
personalized guide based on the goals
that they had why they bought. So if
they bought for security they're doing
seeing different stuff than if they
bought for operations. How cool is that?
Right? So they've integrated the sales
process onboarding customer success and
product all together. Now you're some of
you in small companies. You're thinking
I can't do this right now. But
philosophically you can philosophically
you can say our goal isn't just to
launch a customer. It's to get them to
outcomes. Philosophically you can say in
our sales process are we asking them
what the business goals that they have
are and really getting that deep
insight. Philosophically you can make
sure that your executive business
reviews aren't just about the features
and functions your your customer is
using but actually the outcomes they're
looking for. So this is kind of the the
the really important law as part of this
number three. Okay, so this is all about
this idea that SAS is hard. You wouldn't
be here if SAS was easy, right? SAS is
really hard. And one of the hard things
in 2013 was the natural tendency is if
you do nothing, if you don't meet with
your customer, they're going to turn
eventually. They will. It's brutal, but
it's a reality. What we would say if we
revise this now is that customers churn
eventually because they always want more
value. They always want more, right?
They're not buying your technology for a
point in time. They're buying your
technology so that you can constantly
deliver more for them. And that's why
you innovate in your product. That's why
you have a roadmap. But many many
companies struggle with the fact that
their customer gets stuck. They get
stuck at that initial value and they're
not achieving more value. And the way I
think about this is it's all it's just
like a funnel. So in marketing, you've
got your funnel, right? So you've got
your, you know, leads coming in through
marketing. Some of you are getting them
at the boots here, right? They turn into
sales. That's great. But there's a
second funnel that we need to all
consider, which is now I've got a
customer and how am I constantly
delivering more outcomes to them, right?
And how am I constantly getting them
more value such that they become leads
for me because they become leads, what
we call customer success qualified leads
to either buy more stuff from you or in
some cases be an advocate and bring you
other leads in other companies, right?
And so this idea that customer success
is not just about keeping the client.
It's about constantly getting them more
value is something that's super
important. Share an example of that. So
Jane Graham runs customer success and
renewals at UKG, which is a HR tech
company. Jane has run CS for a long
time. She started with, you know,
classic like firefighting support, all
the stuff that I'm sure you've dealt
with. And she said, "Look, the way to
make our customers sticky is to get them
to use more of our product." And so what
she figured out, there's a good quote
here, is that a huge chunk of all their
sales were coming from existing
customers, right? Selling them new
modules, more licenses, whatever. Why
shouldn't I incent my CS team to
actually generate leads for our sales
team, right? And it's not about the CS
team becoming salespeople. It's about
the CS team getting the customer more
value and getting them more sticky. And
so sales actually will help you drive
customer success. And so this is a good
example of what you can practically do
even when you're small to actually drive
more stickiness in your base. Get your
customers to expand and create this
concept of CSQL. Okay. Number four, the
customers expectation when they buy your
software is to be wildly successful.
Right? That's what we wrote back in
2013. And I think all of you get that,
right? They sign the docu sign, you you
celebrate or echo sign or whatever. You
celebrate and they're just waiting to
get started. They're ready to like get
started. They want to get the value and
you're celebrating that you closed the
deal. Right? We all know about this. But
what's changed is today I think we all
realize and all of you have been there
that customer success takes commitment
from the client too. Right? How many of
you have been in a situation where the
customer isn't doing the right thing?
Raise your hand actually been in a
situation where the customer is not
doing the right things to get value.
Right? Everyone 100%. Right? And so
customer success is a two-way street.
And the best CS teams out there are
bringing their customers into the
customer success process. Creating what
we call a mutual success plan with that
customer, right? Where the tasks aren't
all assigned to your company. Some of
them are assigned to your customer to go
through training, to go through change
management, to define the KPIs they care
about, right? And if you don't do this,
it's a losing battle. Share an good
example of this. Clavio, some of you
know, very hot unicorn startup uh in the
martekch space. Clavio, Kate Walsh, runs
customer support and customer success
there. And she's built this incredible
model where they basically work with
lots of online merchants, e-commerce
companies, etc. And to get them live on
Claio and getting value, they define
what does a customer need to do, what do
they need to do from day one, right? In
the sales process, they're defining what
those shared objectives are. Number
five. So in 2013, we talked about the
need to relentlessly monitor and manage
customer health, right? Part of customer
success is this idea of early warning.
It's not helpful to know that a customer
is about to churn. It's helpful to know
they could churn six months from now.
But how do you actually make that
happen? So you're your founder, your
CEO, your head of customer success. How
do you turn this into reality? And this
is to me the one no-brainer. Everyone
should do it part of the presentation.
every single person once you get to like
50 75 employees you need a CS operations
person don't just hire CSM CSM are
really important but just like you have
in sales sales people and sales
operations people you need customer
success operations to understand the
leading indicators to define processes
because customer success operations is
this incredible lever right it basically
makes every part of your company better
because it helps you understand healthy
customers who could be advocates for
marketing. It helps you understand flaws
in the sales process to help revise
things for your revenue operations team.
It helps you figure out how to make
customer success people more efficient
and more effective. CS operations is an
absolute no-brainer, one of the hottest
jobs out there and for good reason.
John Nuron is the head of customer
success at PTC and has done an
incredible job of not only building
operations at PTC, CS operations, but
he's actually built the world's largest
community around CS operations. There's
actually a whole Slack group of people
just talking CS ops. Super nerdy Slack
group, but definitely very powerful and
if you have people want to get involved
in this, definitely let us know. And he
really defines CS operations as being
all about operationalizing
the vision you have in customer success.
You know, I talk about all this stuff
today, right? Like handoff from pre to
post sales and selling to the right
customer. How do you do that? CS
operations, that's how you do it. You
have somebody that thinks about the
process and figures out how to make it
happen every single time. So law number
six, one of the things we said back in
2013 and kind of one of the origin
stories of customer success is it used
to be that you could just build loyalty
through personal relationships. Somebody
would buy from you and they would stay
with you because you're friends, right?
Like you knew each other for a long time
and they would stay in the job. I think
most of you know that that loyalty and
personal relationships is no longer
there. Mainly because things change so
much, right? Like with jobs changing a
faster clip than ever. You know, 56% of
Americans plan to switch jobs this year,
as I'm sure you've heard that stat.
Companies being bought at a higher clip.
Your sponsors change all the time. And
another no-brainer thing almost everyone
can do here is create a great process
for when you get that LinkedIn update or
you get that email that the person you
sold to left the company after your
heart sinks a little bit because it does
for all of us. Have a process. What do
you do? Who's getting a gift basket?
like the new executive should get a gift
basket or a book or you know material.
You should be setting up meetings,
sending them information,
operationalizing that whole process of
the stakeholder change. And this is so
easy to do. And frankly, even if you're
10 people in your company, it's
critical. I'd argue it's even more
critical when you're 10 people in your
company because honestly, the reason
they're a customer is because they were
excited about your vision. And when
they're gone, the new person has no idea
who you are. None. You've been on those
calls, right? You get on the call and
the customer is like, "So, why did we
have this software? Why did we buy
this?" Right? And you've got to be all
over this. That means the day they
change the LinkedIn, you got to get a
message out to them. You got to get
figure out a way to get on the radar.
Network through common connections,
right? Just like you do in sales. My
opinion, this is a very high value
activity.
One thing people do is they really map
out who are all our sponsors in the
organization. So, you don't just have
one. One of the common concepts in
account management is you never want to
be stuck with single threading, right?
Just one person. So, who are all the
people we're talking to? Who's an
advocate? Who's a detractor? How do we
build up that map of the people in our
organization? Give you a fun story on
this one from Gainsite. So, Meg Sarat is
the head of customer success today at HP
Enterprise. Uh, a great leader. Meg's
actually bought used Gainsite years and
years and years ago, right? And he used
it and then he moved on to a new company
and he was trying to buy Gainsite. did
he wasn't able to buy and he moved on to
a new company and has tried to buy gains
site wasn't able to buy budget whatever
right six years later he goes to HPE and
like the first thing he does is do a
huge deal with gains right and so this
isn't just about defense of like
preventing your customers from churning
it's about building relationships that
allow you to grow over time it's so so
critical
law number seven so we talked about the
fact that product must be priority
number one in customer success if you're
a software At the end of the day, it's
about the product. It's about building
the right product, making sure it's
driving value. And sometimes customer
success people are like almost like kind
of duct tape over product issues. I'm
sure many of you felt that, right? And
so that's still very much true. And some
some of you probably feel that today,
right? But the way to make this happen
is make customer success people and
product people best friends. You have to
find that way to build those
relationships. And it's not like that
today for most companies. It's not like
that because they kind of speak
different languages, right? Customer
success people really excited about
their customers. The product people are
excited about their technology. Both
want shared objectives though, right? If
you think about it, think about like a
van diagram, right? You know, CS people
care about retention, expansion, their
clients. Product people want to make
sure their stuff is getting used.
Adoption is an example of something
that's right in the middle of those two.
But what I find practically is sometimes
a CS team is using different metrics for
adoption than the product team. Right?
Right? The product team is thinking
about daily active users. The CS team is
thinking about a health score. You've
got to find a way to link it all
together between CS and product. And if
you're 100 people, 150 people, I
recommend potentially even having
somebody in your in your CS team who's
kind of that interface point with the
product team. Super valuable.
Okay. So, number eight, sorry, go back
one slide. Number eight, we talked about
the fact that in customer success,
there's a ticking time bomb all the
time, which is time to value. You close
a deal and the customer is looking at
their watch about how long it's taking
to get to value. And one of the things
we said in 2013 is you have to
constantly improve time to value. What I
would say today in 2021 is the best way
to do that the product, right? It's one
thing to send customers emails and get
on calls with them and Zoom meetings.
That's it's all great, but the best way
to do it is in the product. So, one of
the most popular things now is just
using the product to guide the customer,
right? This is actually example of Adobe
where they're guiding the customer
through a guided onboarding in the
product. It's a no-brainer like everyone
should do it in some way, right? And
there's lots of different ways you can
do it, but trying to do it offline when
the product itself is online is just
kind of old school. So, do your
onboarding in the product as much as you
can. Example that glass door, I'm sure
all of you know glass door, right?
whether you post on it or use it as a
customer. Glass door has this inc
interesting kind of business challenge
where they've got all these candidates,
right? All these people on the glass
door site, you know, reviewing companies
and all that. Then they sell to the HR
people and marketing people trying to
use glass door to brand their company.
So, you know, Glass Door is kind of B2B
part of their company, has a customer
success team and has actually done CS
for a long, long time. But they were
doing it kind of in handtohand combat,
right? talking to individual customers,
sending them emails. And then last year
they decided, let's do more of this in
the product. Let's actually do more to
drive the customer to adopt new features
on board all that. What that did was
gave their CS team a lot more time to be
more strategic, right? They're not just
talking about the new release or getting
a customer to adopt something. They're
talking about the business value they've
achieved. So the product can be your
best friend if you're a CS person. Law
number nine. So we talked about the idea
that in 2013 you should deeply
understand churn and retention. What we
would do in 2021 is rephrase that to
deeply understand net revenue retention.
I think most of you know net revenue
retention includes I'm sorry go back one
slide. Net revenue retention includes
both churn but also expansion. Right?
It's not just about keeping customers
about growing them. And this slide shows
that if you improve your net revenue
retention your company multiple goes up.
So uh sorry go back one. And I think
there's some kind of auto clicking
happening. So the horizontal axis is
company's net retention rate. The
vertical axis is their multiple as a
kind of a factor of revenue, right? So
companies that higher net retention
rates have higher enterprise multiples.
If you were 110% net retention rate,
getting to 120 massively increases your
company's value. If you're 120, getting
to 130 and so on. Now you're you might
look at your business and be like, I'm
110. I'm never going to get to 180 like
Snowflake, right? Don't worry about
that. You'll you you probably will never
be able to get there. But getting to 115
or 120 makes a big difference. Give you
an example of this. So, GitLab, I'm sure
many of you use GitLab. It's software
for engineering teams. Awesome company,
incredible culture. And GitLab has David
Sakamoto and Shared Patching, the two
kind of leaders of customer success at
GitLab. And they from the beginning
decided that they didn't want to just
focus on retaining customers and
firefighting and saving them. They
wanted to focus on how they can actually
drive more growth in their base because
the way GitLab works, much like your
products, it's a set of products, right?
They have lots of different products
that help engineering teams. And so what
they did was okay, our job is to get
customers to value, but our measurement
is how much they're expanding. And if
you check out GitLab's S1, they just
filed last week, 154% net retention.
second highest public SAS company out
there in terms of net retention. Law
number 10. So if I wrap it all up, you
know, if you kind of think about
everything I've talked about in 2013, we
thought customer success needs to be
more metrics driven. It's not just about
feelings and meeting customers and
whether what activities you did. It's
about the numbers. What are the numbers?
But I'd argue the first seven or eight
years of customer success, things were a
little squishy. If somebody asked you,
what's your value? If you some of you
have seen office space, right? What
exactly do you do here? Right? And I
think for a lot of CS leaders, it was
hard to answer that question, but the
best companies are getting customer
success to be totally metrics driven in
their organization. And I'm going to go
back home for this one. I'll talk about
Kelly Capot, our chief customer officer.
Kelly runs customer success and you
know, post sales of gains site. She's
incredible. And one thing she did was
made an incredible board deck that's
super numbersoriented. And actually, we
published it online. And you can go find
this if you Google make making customer
success less squishy. And and actually
she did this board deck. She presented
to our investors. Our investors were
like that's one of the best board
presentations I've ever seen. And
honestly, they think way more highly of
Kelly now. So if you want to be like
Kelly, definitely make an amazing deck
and make it be about numbers. So I'll
give you an example. This is just one
slide from the deck. This slide shows
our top 20 customers kind of early
indicators of health, but then like
what's the contribution of that to our
renewal rate? If we maximize the
renewal, what how much can we increase
our renewal rate by, right? Very
numbersoriented versus just stories or
feelings or bullet points. So I would
encourage you to say, how do we get more
numbers around customer success? So with
that, you know, what we've done here is
we've looked at the 10 laws from 2013,
right? And they still all apply. They're
still great, but we've kind of realized
those laws were all about defense. They
were all about firefighting, keeping
customers, and it was really important.
But how do we add in a new vector? How
do we think of customer success in 2021
as not just being about defense? How do
we think about it as being a growth
engine? Right? I think all of you
recognize it's one of the best growth
engines out there. Net revenue retention
is the most important metric in your
business. How do we rethink what
customer success is? But I've got one
bonus one. So my bonus one, it's not
just about numbers. I lied. It's also
about people. And so at Gainsite, if you
followed us, you know, over the years,
one of the things we talk a lot about is
human first business. The idea that like
amidst all these companies and logos and
boots and, you know, Adwords and all
that stuff are human beings. Human
beings at your company trying to, you
know, move up in their careers, human
beings at the customer trying to get
their job done. I think a lot of us lose
sight of that in the process of kind of
running tech companies. What should you
take away from this? Three big things.
Number one, customer success is changing
a lot. And you have the benefit of doing
it right from the start if you're a
young company. And you have the benefit
of reinventing yourself if you've been
around for a while like us. Number two,
customer success is about data, but it's
also about human beings, about building
those human connections. Never lose
sight of that. And number three,
whenever in doubt, if nothing's working,
do a rap battle. Thanks so much
everyone.
[Music]